feat: add AVM Terraform Copilot CLI skills and agent (#498)
Azure/avm-terraform-governance: managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md

A well-formed AVM Terraform module looks the same as every other well-formed AVM Terraform module. CI enforces most of this; this skill makes the conventions explicit so you don't have to discover them via failed checks.

Authoritative sources:
- [TFNFR4](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR4.md) — Lower snake_casing
- [TFNFR5, TFNFR7, TFNFR8](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/_index.md) — Variable hygiene (descriptions, validation, sensitive)
- [TFNFR11, TFNFR12](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/_index.md) — Output hygiene
- [TFNFR17](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR17.md) — Code style
- [TFNFR21](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR21.md) — terraform.tf provider constraints

> - [TFNFR23](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR23.md) — `_header.md` / `_footer.md` (see `avm-tf-documentation`)

Reviewer: I checked every spec ID cited across the PR against `llms.txt`, and five of these six don't match the spec they point at. That matters more than usual here, because these skills tell the agent to cite spec IDs as authority — so an agent fetching the cited ID gets unrelated text.

TFNFR5 is Test Tooling, TFNFR11 is Null Comparison Toggle, TFNFR17 is Variables with Descriptions, TFNFR21 is Discourage Nullability by Default, TFNFR23 is Sensitive Default Value Conditions. Also worth noting TFNFR39 (Standard File Layout) is the spec this skill is really about, and it isn't cited anywhere.

Two of the links also point at `specs-defs/_index.md` rather than a spec page.

```suggestion
- [TFNFR4](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR4.md) — Lower snake_casing
- [TFNFR39](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR39.md) — Standard File Layout
- [TFNFR17](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR17.md), [TFNFR18](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR18.md), [TFNFR19](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR19.md) — Variable descriptions, types, sensitivity
- [TFNFR29](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR29.md) — Sensitive Data Outputs
- [TFNFR26](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR26.md), [TFNFR27](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR27.md) — `terraform.tf` provider constraints
- [TFNFR31](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR31.md) — `locals.tf` for locals only
- [TFNFR2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR2.md) — `_header.md` / `_footer.md` generation (see `avm-tf-documentation`)
- [TFRMNFR1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/resource/non-functional/TFRMNFR1.md) — Subresources as submodules
- [TFRMNFR2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/resource/non-functional/TFRMNFR2.md) — Primary resource named `this`
```

Author: Thanks for checking these against `llms.txt` — corrected the mismatched spec IDs, and the list now links each ID to its actual spec doc.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L11-L18

    }

    # azurerm is permitted ONLY where AzAPI has no equivalent (TFFR3).
    # Remove this block entirely if the module is pure-AzAPI.
    azurerm = {
      source  = "hashicorp/azurerm"
      version = "~> 4.0"
    }

    modtm = {
      source  = "azure/modtm"
      version = "~> 0.3"
    }

    random = {
      source  = "hashicorp/random"
      version = "~> 3.5"
    }
  }
}
```

Rules ([TFNFR21](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR21.md)):

- **`required_version`** uses a hard upper bound — `>= 1.9, < 2.0`. Don't leave it open-ended.
- **Every `required_providers` entry MUST pin to a major version** with `~>` or an explicit `< x.0` ceiling. Floating across majors breaks consumers.
- **`source` lowercase: `Azure/azapi`, `azure/modtm`, `hashicorp/azurerm`, `hashicorp/random`.** Case matters to the Registry.
- **`azapi` and `modtm` are present in every module.** `random` is present in every module-from-template. `azurerm` is present only where TFFR3 justifies it.

## `main.tf` — the primary resource

```hcl
resource "azapi_resource" "this" {

>   type      = "Microsoft.Search/searchServices@2024-06-01-preview"

Reviewer 2: This hardcodes the `type`, whereas [line 249](https://github.com/Azure/avm-terraform-governance/pull/498/changes#diff-45fead1d3b9ee660f9bab815a16b53408c327b1998c4a68cf75f486991638c51R249) in this file/TFFR6 say that it needs to come from `var.resource_types`. Should this be something like `type = var.resource_types.search_search_services` (and then define that in the corresponding `variables.tf`)?

Author: Updated — the canonical example no longer inlines a literal type; it now reads `type = var.resource_types.search_search_services` with a TFFR6 note. (@jtracey93 flagged the same block at L132 for the remaining MUST violations, all fixed together.)

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L110-L111

>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> Rules ([TFNFR21](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/non-functional/TFNFR21.md)):
> 
> - **`required_version`** uses a hard upper bound — `>= 1.9, < 2.0`. Don't leave it open-ended.
> - **Every `required_providers` entry MUST pin to a major version** with `~>` or an explicit `< x.0` ceiling. Floating across majors breaks consumers.
> - **`source` lowercase: `Azure/azapi`, `azure/modtm`, `hashicorp/azurerm`, `hashicorp/random`.** Case matters to the Registry.
> - **`azapi` and `modtm` are present in every module.** `random` is present in every module-from-template. `azurerm` is present only where TFFR3 justifies it.
> 
> ## `main.tf` — the primary resource
> 
> ```hcl
> resource "azapi_resource" "this" {
>   type      = "Microsoft.Search/searchServices@2024-06-01-preview"
>   parent_id = "/subscriptions/${data.azapi_client_config.current.subscription_id}/resourceGroups/${var.resource_group_name}"
>   name      = var.name
>   location  = var.location
>   tags      = var.tags
>   body      = { ... }
>   response_export_values = [ ... ]   # TFFR4 — required attribute, can be []
> }

Reviewer: Building on @myaschmitz's point about the hardcoded `type` — this canonical example has four separate MUST violations, and since it's the block contributors will copy, I think it's worth fixing all of them together.

1. `type` is an inline literal (TFFR6) **and** a preview API version — TFFR6 requires defaults on stable versions
2. `parent_id` is built from `var.resource_group_name`. TFRMFR1 says modules **MUST** expose a single string `parent_id` and **MUST NOT** expose `resource_group_name`, `resource_group_resource_id`, or any other parent-scope-specific variable
3. `replace_triggers_refs` is missing — TFFR5 requires it on every `azapi_resource`, even as `[]`
4. no `retry` / `timeouts` wiring, which TFFR7 requires on every `azapi_resource`

```suggestion
resource "azapi_resource" "this" {
  type      = var.resource_types.search_search_services   # TFFR6 — never inline a literal type
  parent_id = var.parent_id                               # TFRMFR1 — never derive this from resource_group_name
  name      = var.name
  location  = var.location
  tags      = var.tags
  body      = { ... }

  response_export_values = []   # TFFR4 — required, may be []
  replace_triggers_refs  = []   # TFFR5 — required, may be []

  retry = var.retry             # TFFR7 — `retry` is an attribute, not a block

  dynamic "timeouts" {          # TFFR7 — `timeouts` IS a block
    for_each = var.timeouts == null ? [] : [var.timeouts]
    content {
      create = timeouts.value.create
      read   = timeouts.value.read
      update = timeouts.value.update
      delete = timeouts.value.delete
    }
  }
}
```

Author: Rewrote the canonical example to fix all four together: `parent_id = var.parent_id`, `type` from `var.resource_types`, `response_export_values`/`replace_triggers_refs` present, `retry` as an attribute, and `timeouts` as a `dynamic` block.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L110-L134

```

> The primary resource is **always named `this`** ([TFRMNFR2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/resource/non-functional/TFRMNFR2.md)). Same for the standard-interface resources: `azurerm_management_lock.this`, `azurerm_monitor_diagnostic_setting.this` (with `for_each` if it's a map interface). For child resources within the same module that aren't iterables: still `this`. For iterables: a sensible name (e.g. `azurerm_private_endpoint.this`, `azurerm_private_endpoint.this_unmanaged_dns_zone_groups`).

Reviewer: This one inverts TFRMNFR2, which is a MUST and is cited in the same sentence:

> Every other resource declared by the module (locks, role assignments, diagnostic settings, private endpoints…) is a satellite resource and **MUST NOT** be named `this`.

Only the primary resource is `this`.

```suggestion
The **primary** resource is always named `this` ([TFRMNFR2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/resource/non-functional/TFRMNFR2.md)) — and only the primary resource. Every satellite resource (locks, role assignments, diagnostic settings, private endpoints, CMK) **MUST NOT** be named `this`; name it after what it represents: `azapi_resource.lock`, `azapi_resource.role_assignments`, `azapi_resource.diagnostic_settings`, `azapi_resource.private_endpoints`. Child resources of the primary belong in submodules per TFRMNFR1, not inline.
```

Author: Fixed — the text no longer inverts TFRMNFR2. Only the primary resource is `this`; satellites (lock, role_assignments, diagnostic_settings, private_endpoints, CMK) MUST NOT be named `this`.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L137

## `variables.tf`

Required inputs first, then optional inputs grouped by interface, in this order:

```hcl
# Required
variable "location" { ... }
variable "name" { ... }

> variable "resource_group_name" { ... }

Reviewer: Same TFRMFR1 point as the `main.tf` example above — `resource_group_name` is explicitly named as a variable modules **MUST NOT** expose. This applies to submodules too.

```suggestion
# Required
variable "location" { ... }
variable "name" { ... }
variable "parent_id" { ... }   # TFRMFR1 — NOT resource_group_name
```

TFRMFR1 also requires `parent_id` be `nullable = false` and validated with `can(provider::azapi::parse_resource_id(...))` per TFNFR38 — might be worth showing that inline since it's the one variable every module has.

Author: Corrected — the variable example is now `parent_id` (single string, TFRMFR1) and no longer exposes `resource_group_name`.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L147

  identity_type = (
    var.managed_identities.system_assigned && length(var.managed_identities.user_assigned_resource_ids) > 0 ? "SystemAssigned, UserAssigned" :
    var.managed_identities.system_assigned ? "SystemAssigned" :
    length(var.managed_identities.user_assigned_resource_ids) > 0 ? "UserAssigned" :
    null
  )
}
```

## Required AzAPI plumbing variables — TFFR6 + TFFR7

Every AVM TF module MUST declare three module-level variables that consumers can override and that flow into every `azapi_resource` block:

- **`resource_types`** ([TFFR6](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/functional/TFFR6.md)) — object whose keys are the snake_case ARM types the module uses (with `Microsoft.` dropped and provider as a single lowercase token: `Microsoft.Search/searchServices` → `search_search_services`, `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/secrets` → `keyvault_vaults_secrets`). Each value is the full `type@apiVersion` string. The module's `azapi_resource` blocks then read `type = var.resource_types.<key>`, never inline string literals. Submodules accept and use a sub-object of the same shape.

> - **`retry`** ([TFFR7](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/functional/TFFR7.md)) — object with optional `error_message_regex`, `interval_seconds`, `max_interval_seconds`. `default = null`. The module MAY supply defaults for known transient errors via `coalesce()` in the `dynamic "retry"` block.

Reviewer: TFFR7 is explicit that `retry` is an attribute, not a block:

> `retry` is an attribute on `azapi_resource`, so the variable can be assigned directly. `timeouts` is a block, so a `dynamic "timeouts"` block is required to honor the variable's `null` default.

```suggestion
- **`retry`** ([TFFR7](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/refs/heads/main/docs/content/specs-defs/includes/terraform/shared/functional/TFFR7.md)) — object with optional `error_message_regex`, `interval_seconds`, `max_interval_seconds`. `default = null`. `retry` is an **attribute** on `azapi_resource`, so assign it directly (`retry = var.retry`) — do not wrap it in a `dynamic` block. The module MAY default `error_message_regex` to known transient errors for the RP at the variable level.
```

Author: Updated to state `retry` is an attribute (assign `retry = var.retry` directly), and only `timeouts` needs a `dynamic` block.

Resolved: https://github.com/lestermarch/avm-terraform-governance/blob/f72a170/managed-files/root/.github/skills/avm-tf-codestyle/SKILL.md#L267
